So now we have on the Frontend,
we have the API service ready.
But if you look here,
the API connects to web components.
So to actually see something on
the screen, we can do it directly.
But the idea is that I want to create for
the main,
remember the main is empty right now,
this is where we are going to put this.
I want you to create something like this.
I wanna create a web component that can
be something like a homepage, okay?
Of course, if I run this,
nothing happens, okay?
If I refresh, nothing happens.
what is the browser doing
with that component?
If I look here in the main it's
actually there, but it doesn't know
what to do with that well, but we can
create a custom element, a web component,
that can actually render something under
that name, under that HTML element, okay?
And that's a web component.
So if you wanna get deeper
into web components,
you can see the course
of Frontend Masters,
vanilla JavaScript.
You might not need that framework, but
just a few really quick definitions,
a web component is a modular, reusable
building block for web development that
encapsulates a set of related
functionality and user interface elements.
In short words, your own custom HTML
element that you can reuse, okay?
And you can encapsulate under one
HTML element that you create,
such as our homepage, okay?
Actually, the Web Components
spec is not really a spec.
So this is that's wrong.
It's not really a spec, it's not an API,
it's a design pattern, and it's currently
compatible with every browser, so
we don't have any compatibility issues.
It's actually a set of a standard.
So it's more a design pattern.
We use custom elements.
We use HTML templates and
Shadow DOM if we want that's optional,
and also Shadow DOM has
a declarative version.
Roughly Custom Elements lets us
register into the browser my new tag.
Template, HTML template is a way,
instead of writing HTML from JavaScript,
it's a way that we have to write
the HTML for that component in the DOM,
and Shadow DOM will create
an encapsulated DOM for
that component that is useful for
CSS, for example.
So then each component,
we have its own CSS, and
that CSS won't affect the outside, okay?
By default, it affects the outside, okay?
So that's idea, and it's similar to
the idea of components on most of
the libraries out there, React, Angular,
everyone has the idea of a component.
So it's kind of the same thing, but
with vanilla JavaScript with no libraries,
with no frameworks, okay?
And we have freedom of choice on
how to define them and use them.
And we will use, during this course,
many ways to use web components.
So let's create our first web component.
We can create first the template,
or first the JavaScript.
It's just the same, what's the template?
Well, the template, it's actually
something that we can put here somewhere
in the HTML template, and it's actually
the template HTML element, we set an ID.
You will see why we need an ID.
We can call this template home, for
example, and
then write the HTML for this, okay?
So our our HTML for the homepage,
we have two sections.
The sections will be,
we have vertical scroll and I have CSS for
that class for
making a vertical scroll of movies, okay?
And this is gonna be the top 10,
actually top 20,
because we have 20 as our constant,
not top 10.
We can't say top 10 and
then change that doesn't matter.
If we have an issue such
as this Week's Top Movies,
that's a title and a list, okay?
And something similar, we will have for
the random movie so
we can say the title for
this can be something to watch today,
okay?
So if I say this,
here comes the important part,
the template HTML element will
not be rendered by the browser.
It will be parsed by the browser but
not rendered.
We need to use JavaScript to bring that
template and use it in our web component.
Because by default, I mean,
if I refresh, I'm not seeing that.
I mean, the template is there, but
by default it's not being rendered,
it's hidden.
I mean, it's a template, so
it's not being used to rendering.
At least, it should render the HU,
the title I'm not seeing that.